Tuxedo v22.1.0.0.0 - Added bankapp sample application for SALT (#2507)
oracle/docker-images: OracleTuxedo/salt/samples/bankapp/README.md

> # Oracle Tuxedo `bankapp` Sample Container Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Oracle SALT bankapp sample application container image
```

Reviewer: This should also be on line 1, i.e. remove the empty first line.

Author: Removed the first line and modified second line to:
# Oracle Tuxedo SALT bankapp sample application container image

> This sample extends the Oracle Tuxedo image by creating a "bankapp" application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample "bankapp" application extends the Oracle Tuxedo image.
```

Author: Changed it accordingly

## Prerequisites

This image uses the Orace Tuxedo container image `oracle/tuxedo:latest` as its base. Please follow the [Oracle Tuxedo image](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/tree/main/OracleTuxedo/core) documentation to build the container image before performing the operations described in this document.

> ## How to Build the Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to build the image
```

Author: I had it originally as the below but our documentation team had it changed to the caps for the first letter "Build" and "Image". I reverted it back to the below:
## How to build the image

> Download the parent directory (bankapp) of this README.md file from GitHub to a location of your choice. This location is referenced as `YOUR_APP_DIR` in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the parent directory (`bankapp`) of this `README.md` file from GitHub to a location of your choice. This location is referenced as `YOUR_APP_DIR` in this document.
```

Reviewer: Please use `$APP_DIR` instead as it's shorter. It should be defined so that your commands could work too.

Author: Done.

```shell

> export TUXDIR=<Tuxedo installation directory when the above mentioned `oracle/tuxedo:latest` image was built>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export REPO_BASE="/path/to/oracle/docker-images"
export TUXDIR="$REPO_BASE/OracleTuxedo/core/dockerfiles/22.1.0.0.0"
```

You could probably remove the first line if you state that `$REPO_BASE` is the path to where this Git repo has been cloned.

Author: TUXDIR here is not from the Tuxedo core docker image. Its from the manually downloaded Tuxedo binaries from the Oracle downloads website and which was installed prior to building the Tuxedo core docker image "oracle/tuxedo:latest"

Reviewer: It doesn't really matter where TUXDIR is pointing. I want you to replace `<Tuxedeo installation directory yadda yadda...>` with the actual path you use in the examples in the `oracle/docker-images` repo when building this image.

Author: I was able to removed this entire section actually. Moved it to the start.sh where the build happens automatically and hence the user will no longer be required to copy and build the bankapp manually.

> cp -rp ${TUXDIR}/samples/atmi/bankapp/*  &lt;YOUR_APP_DIR>/bankapp/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cp -rp ${TUXDIR}/samples/atmi/bankapp/*  "$YOUR_APP_DIR/bankapp/"
```

Reviewer: Please don't use < or > in sample commands as they won't work if cut and paste. Your commands in code blocks should work.

Reviewer 2: @Djelibeybi is that really a feasible mandate for samples in general e.g. if schema credentials are needed?

Reviewer: If schema credentials are required, you could document how to set those as variables and then use the variables for the sample commands. So yeah, I think it's feasible.

> cd &lt;YOUR_APP_DIR>/bankapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd "$YOUR_APP_DIR/bankapp"
```

export APPDIR=$(pwd)

> export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${TUXDIR}/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="${TUXDIR}/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH"
```

make -f bankapp.mk TUXDIR="${TUXDIR}" APPDIR="${APPDIR}"

docker build -t tuxedo-bankapp .
```

> ## How to Run the Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create and run a container from the image
```

Use the image built in the preceding section to create a container that runs the application with the following command:

```shell
docker run -d -p 5955:5955 tuxedo-bankapp
```

You can review the container logs by using the `docker logs <container_id>` command. The `container_id` can be found by running the `docker ps` command.

> ## How to Test the HTTP Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to test the application

> You can test the HTTP client by running the following commands on the same box where you ran the `docker run` command as described in the preceding section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the application using the `curl` HTTP client using the following sample commands. These commands must be run on the same host upon which the container created above is running.
```

```shell
TUX_HOSTNAME="127.0.0.1"

curl -v -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/INQUIRY    -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10000}'

curl -v -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/WITHDRAWAL -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"10"}'

curl -v -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/DEPOSIT    -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"1"}'

curl -v -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/TRANSFER   -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":[10001,10002],"SAMOUNT":"1"}'

curl -v -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/ABAL       -d '{"b_id":10}' 

> ```

Reviewer: Please provide sample output so that users are able to determine whether each command was successful or not.

# Oracle Tuxedo SALT bankapp sample application container image

This sample "bankapp" application extends the Oracle Tuxedo image.

## Prerequisites

> This image uses the Oracle Tuxedo core container image `oracle/tuxedo:latest` as its base. Please follow the [Oracle Tuxedo image](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/tree/main/OracleTuxedo/core) documentation to build the container image before performing the operations described in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This image uses the Oracle Tuxedo core container image `oracle/tuxedo:22.1.0.0.0` as its base image. Please follow the [Oracle Tuxedo image documentation ](https://github.com/oracle/docker-images/tree/main/OracleTuxedo/core) to build the base image before continuing.
```

## How to build the image

To build the "bankapp" sample application, run:

```shell
docker build -t tuxedo-bankapp .
```

## Create and run a container from the image

> Use the image built in the preceding section to create a container that runs the application with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create a container that runs the application from the image built in the previous step:
```

```shell

> docker run -d -p 5955:5955 tuxedo-bankapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --name tuxedo-bankapp -d -p 5955:5955 tuxedo-bankapp
```

```

> You can review the container logs by using the `docker logs <container_id>` command. The `container_id` can be found by running the `docker ps` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `docker logs tuxedo-bankapp` to see the logs from the running container. Add `-f` to the command to follow the logs then hit `CTRL+C` to stop following.
```

## How to test the application

> You can test the application using the `curl` HTTP client using the following sample commands. These commands must be run on the same host upon which the container created above is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the application using the `curl` HTTP client using the following sample commands. Run these commands on the same host that's running the sample application container.
```

> ```shell
> TUX_HOSTNAME="127.0.0.1"
> 
> curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/INQUIRY -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10000}'
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
First, set `TUX_HOSTNAME` to use the loopback address:

```shell
export TUX_HOSTNAME="127.0.0.1"
```

To send an `INQUIRY` request for account ID 10000, run:

```
curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" "http://$TUX_HOSTNAME:5955/INQUIRY" -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10000}'
```
````

The expected output is

> ```json
>         "ACCOUNT_ID":   10000,
>         "FORMNAM":      "CBALANCE",
>         "SBALANCE":     "$1456.00"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
{ 
  "ACCOUNT_ID": 10000,
  "FORMNAM": "CBALANCE",
  "SBALANCE": "$1456.00"
}
```
````

Reviewer: I'm hoping the `curl` command outputs valid JSON, which has opening and closing braces.

Author: Yes, it does. I had omitted the opening and closing braces ({ and }) for brevity. Adding it back to all.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To withdraw funds from account 10001, run:

```

> ```shell
> curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/WITHDRAWAL -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"10"}'
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" "http://$TUX_HOSTNAME:5955/WITHDRAWAL" -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"10"}'
```
```

The expected output is

> ```json
>         "ACCOUNT_ID":   10001,
>         "STATLIN":      " ",
>         "FORMNAM":      "CWITHDRAW",
>         "SBALANCE":     "$5568.00",
>         "SAMOUNT":      "$10.00"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
{
    "ACCOUNT_ID": 10001,
    "STATLIN": " ",
    "FORMNAM": "CWITHDRAW",
    "SBALANCE": "$5568.00",
    "SAMOUNT": "$10.00"
}
```
````

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To deposit funds into account 10001, run:

```

```shell

> curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/DEPOSIT -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"1"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" "http://$TUX_HOSTNAME:5955/DEPOSIT" -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":10001,"SAMOUNT":"1"}'
```

```

The expected output is

> ```json
>         "ACCOUNT_ID":   10001,
>         "BALANCE":      5569,
>         "STATLIN":      "",
>         "FORMNAM":      "CDEPOSIT",
>         "SBALANCE":     "$5569.00",
>         "SAMOUNT":      "$1.00"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
{
    "ACCOUNT_ID": 10001,
    "BALANCE": 5569,
    "STATLIN": "",
    "FORMNAM": "CDEPOSIT",
    "SBALANCE": "$5569.00",
    "SAMOUNT": "$1.00"
}
```
````

This sample output has no space in `STATLIN` but the `WITHDRAWAL` example does. Is that correct?

Author: That is correct. There is no space in the "STATLIN" value for DEPOSIT request but there is one for the WITHDRAWAL request. These output where coped verbatim from the real output.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To transfer funds from account 10001 to 10002, run:

```

```shell

> curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/TRANSFER -d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":[10001,10002],"SAMOUNT":"1"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" "http://$TUX_HOSTNAME:5955/TRANSFER"-d '{"ACCOUNT_ID":[10001,10002],"SAMOUNT":"1"}'
```

```

The expected output is

> ```json
>         "ACCOUNT_ID":   [10001, 10002],
>         "STATLIN":      "",
>         "FORMNAM":      "CTRANSFER",
>         "SBALANCE":     ["$5568.00", "$904.00"],
>         "SAMOUNT":      "$1.00"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
{
    "ACCOUNT_ID": [10001, 10002],
    "STATLIN": "",
    "FORMNAM": "CTRANSFER",
    "SBALANCE": ["$5568.00", "$904.00"],
    "SAMOUNT": "$1.00"
}
```
````

No space in `STATLIN` here either.

> 

Reviewer: I'm not actually sure about this command. I assume it's meant to get the balance, but it doesn't match your previous examples.

Author: Prior to the transfer of $1 to acct 10002, acct 10001 had $5,569. Post the transfer, acct 10001 has a balance of $5,568.

```shell
curl -X POST -H "Content-type:application/json" http://${TUX_HOSTNAME}:5955/ABAL -d '{"b_id":10}' 
```

The expected output is

```json
        "b_id": 10,
        "balance":      219216,
        "ermsg":        ""

> ```

Reviewer: This output is the only one in lowercase. Is that correct?

> ```

Author: Yes, the output of the "ABAL" request is in lowercase.
